a top United Nations human rights
official has resigned over the agency's
handling of the war in Gaza in his
resignation letter Craig MBA described
Israel's actions as textbook genocide he
spoke to Gabriel
alisand usually the most difficult part
of proving genocide is intent because
there has to be an intention uh uh to uh
destroy and whole or in part a
particular group in this case the intent
by Israeli leaders has been so
explicitly stated and publicly stated by
the Prime Minister by the president by
senior cabinet uh ministers by military
leaders that that is an easy case to
make it's on the public record but it's
important that we start using the
language uh that the law sets out just
as you know in recent terms every major
international human rights organization
Israeli human rights organizations
Palestinian human rights
organizations United Nations human
rights mechanisms independent mechanisms
have found that the situation in Israel
and Palestine amounts to the crime of
apartheid un needs to get used to
addressing these particular violations
just as we have in other situations when
we ask the Secretary General in his
office about genocide he won't use that
term he says and previous Secretary
generals have said that that is for
courts to decide do you think that the
Secretary General should start using the
term genocide when it comes to what
we're seeing happening in Gaza if we can
allege that we see war crimes crimes
against humanity as we have often done
there's no reason to exclude uh where we
see very strong evidence the possibility
of genocide uh being committed and I
think you're going to be hearing that
term more and more in connection with
what we're witnessing in Gaza um but
institutions of course have to go
through the necessary steps before they
can make that pronouncement I as of uh
today am an independent citizen not
carrying the institution on my shoulders
and I feel quite confident as a human
rights lawyer in saying that what I see
unfolding in Gaza and Beyond uh is
genocide Joe Biden has recently said
that after this conflict is over we need
to get back to a two-state
solution in your letter you say the
Mantra of a two-state solution has
become and I quote an open joke in the
corridors of the United Nations where we
are sitting right now is it really an
open joke within the corridors of the
United Nations explain and it has been
for quite a long time if you ask
somebody in their official capacity
about the two-state solution they will
repeat that phrase here over and over
again as the official position of the
United Nations indeed it is the official
position of the United States but nobody
who follows these circumstances either
from the political side or from the
human rights side believe one that a
two-state solution is possible anymore
there's nothing left uh for a
Palestinian state that would be
sustainable or just or or possible in
any respect and everyone knows that
and secondly that solution never dealt
with the problem of the fundamental
human rights of Palestinians so for
example it would leave them as second
class citizens without full human rights
inside uh the green light inside what is
now Israel proper and so when people are
not talking uh from official talking
points you hear increasingly about a
one-state solution and what that means
is beginning to advocate for the
principle of equality of Human Rights
instead of these old uh political
taglines that would mean a state in
which you have equal rights for
Christians Muslims and Jews based upon
human rights uh and based upon the rule
of law it is what we call for in every
other circumstance around the world and
the question is why is the United
Nations not calling for that in Israel
Palestine as well